# Legal Notes

The website https://dx.pagopa.it (hereinafter the "Site") is managed by PagoPA
S.p.A., with registered office in Rome, Piazza Colonna n. 370, ZIP 00187 -
registration number in Rome Business Register, Tax Code and VAT number
15376371009, email info@pagopa.it.

PagoPA S.p.A. is constantly committed to ensuring the quality of information
published on the Site, as well as their integrity, updating, completeness,
timeliness, ease of consultation and accessibility. For any reports or
suggestions, please write to info@pagopa.it.

Under no circumstances can PagoPA S.p.A. be held responsible for damages of any
nature caused directly or indirectly by access to the Site, by the inability or
impossibility to access it, nor for the use of information contained therein.

Links to external sites, indicated on this Site, are provided as a simple
service to users, excluding any responsibility for the correctness and
completeness of all the links indicated. Their presence does not imply any form
of approval and/or sharing of the contents therein by PagoPA S.p.A., guarantee
regarding the quality of services and/or products available therein, nor
responsibility in relation to the legitimacy, completeness and correctness of
the information contained therein.

PagoPA S.p.A. reserves the right to modify the contents of the Site at any time
and without notice.

## Intellectual Property

All rights to the contents (by way of example, documents, distinctive signs,
images, files, Website architecture) are reserved to PagoPA S.p.A. pursuant to
applicable law.

The contents of this Site - including images, graphics, logos and trademarks -
are owned by PagoPA S.p.A., as well as its licensors, and are covered by
copyright and industrial property regulations.

PagoPA S.p.A. reserves the right to take any and all appropriate action against
any initiatives undertaken by third parties aimed at using in any form and
manner not permitted distinctive signs identical or similar (as confusing) to
the aforementioned trademarks and logos.

## Use of published material

Documents and images present in any section of the Site and in any format may be
downloaded only for personal and non-commercial use: therefore nothing, not even
in part, may be copied, modified, distributed for profit.

Any commercial use may take place, in compliance with applicable law and with
prior written authorization from PagoPA S.p.A.

Reproduction of trademarks and contents, images and any other form of
communication subject to copyright is prohibited.

## Law and jurisdiction

The application of the conditions of use of this Site is governed by Italian
procedural and substantive law.

For any dispute relating to the interpretation, execution and validity of these
legal notes, the Court of Rome shall have exclusive jurisdiction.

## Contacts

For information relating to the site or these legal notes, please contact PagoPA
S.p.A. at: info@pagopa.it

## Privacy

For information on personal data processing, see the
[Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy).

---

_Last updated: September 11, 2025_

PagoPA S.p.A. - Joint-stock company with sole shareholder - Share capital of
1,000,000 euros fully paid-in - Registered office in Rome, Piazza Colonna 370,
ZIP 00187 - Registration number in Rome Business Register, Tax Code and VAT
number 15376371009
